# Electronics-Sales-SQL-and-Tableau
In this project, I will data analysis on a Electronics Store dataset using SQL and create a dashboard within Tableau.

# Insights:
- Profits follow a similar trend each year. We see a big drop in profits in April, followed by a boom in profits in May. Also, December and February have the biggest peaks in profits each year. This is likely due to Christmas and post-Christmas Sales.
- From 2016 to 2019 we see profits increasing each year. In both 2018 and 2019 we see an increase in £3.2m, however when we look at the percentage increase, in 2018 we a an increase of 72.1% whilst we only see an increase of 43.3% in 2019.
- In 2020, we see a drop of 49.1% in profits compared to 2020. This is most likely due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite the drop in profits, we still see the same trends that we see in the previous years.
- When we inspect the percentage increase in profits in 2021, we see there is an even larger decrease in profits. However, it is important to note that we only have data up to February 2021 (which can be seen either from the dataset or from the Profit over time graph).
- When we filter our data to only show data from the months January and February, we can analyze how 2021 compares to previous years despite the incomplete data. When we do this, we see that there has been a 75.9% drop in profits compared to the first two months of 2020. This could also be explained be the COVID-19 pandemic.
- By looking at the change in proportion of profits of different categories over time, we see that most categories remain fairly consistent. The categories that hvae been consistent each year are: Audio which ranges between 4-6%, Cameras and Camcorders make up around 10-14%, Music, Movies and Audio Books ranging between 5-7% and Games and Toys which makes up less than 2% of total profits each year. The latter also makes up the the smallest proportion of profits every year. TV and Video saw a decrease in proportion of profits of 7% in 2017 compared to 2016. However, after 2017, it has remained consistent; ranging between 9-12%. Cell Phones has seen an increase in proportion of profits; starting at 5.9% in 2016 and increasing each year to 15% in 2021. In 2016, we see that Home Appliances contributed the most to total profit generated that year; followed closely by Computers. However, after 2016, we see a decrease in the perecntage of profits from Home Appliances whilst Computers' percentage increase. In 2021, Computers are responsible for almost 43% of profits, which could be explained by more people working remote.
- Computers account for the largest proportion of our sales, with 22% of products sold and 35% of total profit generated coming from this category. Furthermore, by filtering to the Computers category and drilling down to subcategories, we see that half of the sales from this category come from desktops. The other subcategories within this category have sold a similar amount of products but Projectors and Screen make more profit; accounting for 21% of all profits coming from the Computers category. It could be a good idea to bundle the less popular products within this category with desktops, in order to boost their sales by taking advantage of the popularity of desktops.
- Despite Games and Toys selling the fourth-most products out of all the categories, with 22.6k products solda and 11% of all products sold, it only makes up 1% of total profits.
- When we filter our data between gender, we see that there isn't much difference in sales. Total profit, revenue, orders and products sold are almost the same. There also doesn't appear to be any significant differences in sales in different Categories and Subcategories between the genders.
